.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 ... 2022 2023
.\"     John McCue <jmccue@jmcunx.com>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH JHD 1 "2020-10-05" "JMC" "Local Command"
.SH NAME
jhd - Hexadecimal or Octal Dump of 1 or more files
.SH SYNOPSIS
jhd [OPTIONS] [FILE...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a hexadecimal or octal dump of one or more files.
Output written to stdout.
.PP
With no FILE specified or if a FILE has the name '-'
use stdin (Standard Input).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-D
Create an decimal dump instead of the default hexadecimal dump.
.TP
-e file
Optional, Errors written to the file specified, defaults to stderr.
Note, not all errors will be written to the file specified,
this depends upon where the error occur.
.TP
-f
Force file create.
Create file even if the target file exists.
.TP
-h
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
-m n
Stop dump after displaying 'n' bytes.
.TP
-O
Create an octal dump instead of the default hexadecimal dump.
.TP
-o file
Optional, Write output to the file specified, defaults to stdout.
.TP
-p n
Pause 'n' microseconds between line prints.
This can be useful if you want to see data scrolling
at a slower rate instead of piping through a pager.
Default, do not pause scrolling.
.TP
-q
Quiet, never print file headers (names of files processed),
will only attempt to print headers when processing more than one file.
.TP
-S b
Start dump at byte 'b' instead of the beginning of the file.
.TP
-V
Output version information and exit.
.TP
-v
Display in vertical mode instead of the default horizontal mode.
.TP
-x
Create a hexadecimal dump, this is the default and
exists only for compatibility.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If available, od(1) may have more/different options
.SH BUGS
Do not know of any.
.SH SEE ALSO
ASCII,
conv,
db(1),
hexdump(1),
jascii(1),
more(1),
od(1),
scat,
strings(1)
.SH ERROR-CODES
.nf
0 success
1 processing error or help/rev displayed
.fi
